# Accessibility Guidelines

## PREAMBLE
According the [Strategy 2017](http://www.ilias.de/docu/goto_docu_file_5585_download.html)
ILIAS aims to to be "Usable for Everyone" including users with special needs.
ILIAS is to be perceivable, operable, understandable and of robust use for all users.
ILIAS enables users to locate, identify, access, and operate objects and services provided. 
These guidelines outline functional accessibility requirements as set out by EN 301 549. V2.1.2 of August 2018. 
EN 301 549 reflects WCAG 2.1 Recommendation Level A and AA. 
These guidelines reference both documents. 
Because ILIAS is rendered in a browser it is categorised as a ‘web page’ by EN 301 549. This is not how it feels to us. 

CAVEAT: ILIAS purpose however is to facilitate learning which typically involves content. This content is categorised either as ‘non-web document’ or as ‘web page’. The content is generated by users and beyond the control of ILIAS and not covered by these guidelines. Editors and forms allowing users to generate content are to encourage producing accessible output if possible.

HTML-Content rendered by ILIAS shall conform to EN 301 549 / WCAG 2.1 Recommendation Level A and AA. 
1.	Controls provide at least on mode of operation that does not require vision. 
2.	Visual modes of operation provide features enabling users to make better use of their limited vision. 
3.	No mode of operation relies exclusively on the perception of colour, there is at least one additional method of distinction. 
4.	If there ever was an auditory mode of operation, there must be at least one mode of operation that does not require hearing. 
5.	If there ever was a vocal mode of operation, there must be at least one mode that can be operated without vocal output. 
6.	Controls that require manual action provide at least on mode of operation that does not require manipulation or hand strength. 
7.	[Reach does not apply]
8.	No control has the potential for triggering photosensitive seizures. 
9.	We will try to accommodate users with limited cognitive, language or learning abilities. 
10.	ILIAS can be operated with assistive technology without compromising the privacy of a user. 

## Principle 1: Perceivable
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1 / EN 301 549 > 9.1 
Target group: creator of content, developers
Information and user interface components MUST be presentable to users in ways they can perceive.

### Guideline Text Alternatives
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.1 / EN 301 549 > 9.1.1
Target group: creator of content, developers for non-text-controls
One MUST provide text alternatives for any non-text content so that it can be changed into other
forms people need, such as large print, braille, speech, symbols or simpler language.
  
#### Success Criterion Non-text Content
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.1.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.1.1.1
Target group: creator of content, developers for non-text-controls
All non-text content that is presented to the user MUST have a text
alternative that serves the equivalent purpose, except for the situations listed below:

  - **Controls, Input**: If non-text content is a control or accepts user input, then it
  MUST have a name that describes its purpose.

  - **Time-Based Media**: If non-text content is time-based media, then text alternatives
  MUST at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text content.

  - **Test**: If non-text content is a test or exercise that would be invalid if presented in text, then text alternatives MUST at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text content.
  
  - **Sensory**: If non-text content is primarily intended to create a specific sensory experience, then text alternatives MUST at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text content.

  - **CAPTCHA**: If the purpose of non-text content is to confirm that content is being
  accessed by a person rather than a computer, then text alternatives that identify and
  describe the purpose of the non-text content MUST be provided, and alternative forms of
  CAPTCHA using output modes for different types of sensory perception MUST be provided to
  accommodate different disabilities.

  - **Decoration, Formatting, Invisible**: If non-text content is pure decoration, is used
  only for visual formatting, or is not presented to users, then it SHOULD be implemented in a
  way that it can be ignored by assistive technology. 

### Guideline Time-based Media
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.2 / EN 301 549 > 9.1.2
Target group: creator of content
One MUST provide alternatives for time-based media.

#### Success Criterion Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded)
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.2.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.1.2.1
Target group: creator of content
An alternative for time-based media or audio description of the prerecorded video content MUST be provided for synchronized media, except when the media is a media alternative for text and is clearly labeled as such.

 - **Prerecorded Audio-only**: An alternative for time-based media MUST be provided that presents equivalent information for prerecorded audio-only content.
 - **Prerecorded Video-only**: Either an alternative for time-based media or an audio track MUST be provided that presents equivalent information for prerecorded video-only content.

#### Success Criterion Captions (Prerecorded)
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.2.2 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.1.2.2 
Target group: creator of content
Captions MUST be provided for all prerecorded audio content in synchronized media, except when the media is a media alternative for text and is clearly labeled as such.

#### Success Criterion Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.2.3 Level A  / EN 301 549 > 9.1.2.3
Target group: creator of content
An alternative for time-based media or audio description of the prerecorded video content MUST be provided for synchronized media, except when the media is a media alternative for text and is clearly labeled as such.

#### Success Criterion Captions (Live)
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.2.4 Level AA  / EN 301 549 > 9.1.2.4
Target group: creator of content
Captions MUST be provided for all live audio content in synchronized media.

#### Success Criterion Audio Description (Prerecorded)
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.2.5 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.1.2.5
Target group: creator of content
Audio description MUST be provided for all prerecorded video content in synchronized media.

#### Guideline Adaptable
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.3 / EN 301 549 > 9.1.3
Target group: creator of content
One MUST create content that can be presented in different ways (for example simpler layout)
without losing information or structure.

#### Success Criterion Info and Relationships
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.3.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.1.3.1
Target group: creator of content, developer
Information, structure, and relationships conveyed through presentation MUST be programmatically determined or are available in text.

#### Success Criterion Meaningful Sequence
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.3.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.1.3.1
Target group: creator of content, developer
When the sequence in which content is presented affects its meaning, a correct reading sequence MUST be programmatically determined.

#### Success Criterion Sensory Characteristics
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.3.3 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.1.3.3
Target group: creator of content, developer
Instructions provided for understanding and operating content MUST not rely solely on sensory characteristics of components such as shape, size, visual location, orientation, or sound.

#### Success Criterion Criterion Orientation
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.3.4 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.1.3.4
Target group: creator of content, developer
Content MUST not restrict its view and operation to a single display orientation, such as portrait or landscape, unless a specific display orientation is essential.

#### Success Criterion Identify Input Purpose
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.3.5 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.1.3.5
Target group: developer
The purpose of each input field collecting information about the user MUST be programmatically determined when:

- The input field serves a purpose identified in the Input Purposes for User Interface Components section; and
- The content is implemented using technologies with support for identifying the expected meaning for form input data.

### Guideline 1.4 Distinguishable
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.4 / EN 301 549 > 9.1.4
Target group: creator of content, developer
One MUST make it easier for users to see and hear content including separating foreground from background.

#### Success Criterion Use of Color
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.4.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.1.4.1
Target group: creator of content, developer
Color MUST not be used as the only visual means of conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a response, or distinguishing a visual element.

#### Success Criterion Audio Control
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.4.2 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.1.4.2
Target group: developer
If any audio on a Web page plays automatically for more than 3 seconds, either a mechanism MUST be available to pause or stop the audio, or a mechanism MUST be available to control audio volume independently from the overall system volume level.

#### Success Criterion Contrast Minimum
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.4.3 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.1.4.3
Target group: creator of content, developer
The visual presentation of text and images of text MUST have a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1, except for the following:

- **Large Text**: Large-scale text and images of large-scale text MUST have a contrast ratio of at least 3:1;
- **Incidental**: Text or images of text that are part of an inactive user interface component, that are pure decoration, that are not visible to anyone, or that are part of a picture that contains significant other visual content, have no contrast requirement.
- **Logotypes**: Text that is part of a logo or brand name has no contrast requirement.

#### Success Criterion Resize text
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.4.4 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.1.4.4
Target group: developer
Except for captions and images of text, it MUST be psooible to resize text without assistive technology up to 200 percent without loss of content or functionality.

#### Success Criterion Images of Text
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.4.5 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.1.4.5
Target group: creator of content, developer
If the technologies being used can achieve the visual presentation, text is MUST be used to convey information rather than images of text except for the following:

- **Customizable**: The image of text can be visually customized to the user's requirements;
- **Essential**: A particular presentation of text is essential to the information being conveyed. Logotypes (text that is part of a logo or brand name) are considered essential.

#### Success Criterion Criterion Reflow
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.4.10 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.1.4.10
Target group: creator of content, developer
Content MUST be presented without loss of information or functionality, and without requiring scrolling in two dimensions for:

- Vertical scrolling content at a width equivalent to 320 CSS pixels;

- Horizontal scrolling content at a height equivalent to 256 CSS pixels.

Except for parts of the content which require two-dimensional layout for usage or meaning.
Examples of content which require two-dimensional layout are images, maps, diagrams, video, games, presentations, data tables, and interfaces where it is necessary to keep toolbars in view while manipulating content.

#### Success Criterion Non-text Contrast
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.4.11 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.1.4.11
Target group: creator of content, developer
The visual presentation of the following MUST have a contrast ratio of at least 3:1 against adjacent color(s):

- **User Interface Components**: Visual information required to identify user interface components and states, except for inactive components or where the appearance of the component is determined by the user agent and not modified by the author;

- **Graphical Objects**: Parts of graphics required to understand the content, except when a particular presentation of graphics is essential to the information being conveyed.

#### Success Criterion Text Spacing$$
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.4.12 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.1.4.12
In content implemented using markup languages that support the following text style properties, no loss of content or functionality occurs by setting all of the following and by changing no other style property:

- Line height (line spacing) to at least 1.5 times the font size;

-	Spacing following paragraphs to at least 2 times the font size;

-	Letter spacing (tracking) to at least 0.12 times the font size;

-	Word spacing to at least 0.16 times the font size.

Exception: Human languages and scripts that do not make use of one or more of these text style properties in written text can conform using only the properties that exist for that combination of language and script.

#### Success Criterion Content on Hover or Focus
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.4.13 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.1.4.13
Where receiving and then removing pointer hover or keyboard focus triggers additional content to become visible and then hidden, the following are true:

- **Dissmissable**: A mechanism is available to dismiss the additional content without moving pointer hover or keyboard focus, unless the additional content communicates an input error or does not obscure or replace other content;

- **Hoverable**: If pointer hover can trigger the additional content, then the pointer can be moved over the additional content without the additional content disappearing;

- **Persistent**: The additional content remains visible until the hover or focus trigger is removed, the user dismisses it, or its information is no longer valid.

Exception: The visual presentation of the additional content is controlled by the user agent and is not modified by the author.
Custom tooltips, sub-menus, and other nonmodal popups that display on hover and focus are examples of additional content covered by this criterion.

### Principle Operable
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2. / EN 301 549 > 9.2
User interface components and navigation must be operable.

#### Guideline Keyboard Accessible
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.1 / EN 301 549 > 9.2.1
Make all functionality available from a keyboard.

#### Success Criterion Keyboard
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.1.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.2.1.1
All functionality of the content is operable through a keyboard interface without requiring specific timings for individual keystrokes, except where the underlying function requires input that depends on the path of the user's movement and
not just the endpoints. This exception relates to the underlying function, not the input technique. For example, if using handwriting to enter text, the input technique (handwriting) requires path-dependent input but the underlying function (text input) does not.  This does not forbid and should not discourage providing mouse input or other input methods in addition to keyboard operation.

#### Success Criterion No Keyboard Trap
If keyboard focus can be moved to a component of the page using a keyboard interface, then focus can be moved away from that component using only a keyboard interface, and, if it requires more than unmodified arrow or tab keys or other
standard exit methods, the user is advised of the method for moving focus away.  
Note: Since any content that does not meet this success criterion can interfere with a user's ability to use the whole page, all content on the Web page (whether it is used to meet other success criteria or not) must meet this success criterion.

#### Success Criterion Character Key Shortcuts
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.1.4 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.2.1.4
If a keyboard shortcut is implemented in content using only letter (including upper- and lower-case letters), punctuation, number, or symbol characters, then at least one of the following is true:

- **Turn off**: A mechanism is available to turn the shortcut off;
- **Remap**: A mechanism is available to remap the shortcut to use one or more non-printable keyboard characters (e.g. Ctrl, Alt, etc);
- **Active only on focus**: The keyboard shortcut for a user interface component is only active when that component has focus.

### Guideline 2.2 Enough Time
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.2 / EN 301 549 > 9.2.2
Provide users enough time to read and use content.

#### Success Criterion Timing Adjustable
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.2.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.2.2.1
For each time limit that is set by the content, at least one of the following is true:

  - **Turn off**: The user is allowed to turn off the time limit before encountering it; or

  - **Adjust**: The user is allowed to adjust the time limit before encountering it over a
  wide range that is at least ten times the length of the default setting; or

  - **Extend**: The user is warned before time expires and given at least 20 seconds to
  extend the time limit with a simple action (for example, "press the space bar"), and
  the user is allowed to extend the time limit at least ten times; or

  - **Real-time Exception**: The time limit is a required part of a real-time event (for
  example, an auction), and no alternative to the time limit is possible; or

  - **Essential Exception**: The time limit is essential and extending it would invalidate
  the activity; or

  - **20 Hour Exception**: The time limit is longer than 20 hours.

#### Success Criterion Pause, Stop, Hide
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.2.2 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.2.2.2
For moving, blinking, scrolling, or auto-updating information, all of the following are true:

  - **Moving, blinking, scrolling**: For any moving, blinking or scrolling information that
   (1) starts automatically, (2) lasts more than five seconds, and (3) is presented in
   parallel with other content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop, or
   hide it unless the movement, blinking, or scrolling is part of an activity where it
   is essential; and

  - **Auto-updating**: For any auto-updating information that (1) starts automatically and
  (2) is presented in parallel with other content, there is a mechanism for the user to
   pause, stop, or hide it or to control the frequency of the update unless the
   auto-updating is part of an activity where it is essential.

### Guideline Seizures
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.3 / EN 301 549 > 9.2.3
Do not design content in a way that is known to cause seizures.

#### Success Criterion Three Flashes or Below Threshold
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.3.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.2.3.1
Web pages do not contain anything that flashes more than three times in any one second period, or the flash is below the general flash nd red flash thresholds.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.3.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.2.3.1

### Guideline Navigable
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.4 / EN 301 549 > 9.2.4
Provide ways to help users navigate, find content, and determine where they are.

#### Success Criterion Bypass Blocks
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.4.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.2.4.1 
A mechanism is available to bypass blocks of content that are repeated on multiple Web pages.

#### Success Criterion Page Titled
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.4.2 Level A  / EN 301 549 > 9.2.4.2
Web pages have titles that describe topic or purpose.

#### Success Criterion Focus Order
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.4.3 Level A  / EN 301 549 > 9.2.4.3
If a Web page can be navigated sequentially and the navigation sequences affect meaning or operation, focusable components receive focus in an order that preserves meaning and operability.

#### Success Criterion Link Purpose (In Context)
The purpose of each link can be determined from the link text alone or from the link text together with its programmatically determined link context, except where the purpose of the link would be ambiguous to users in general.

#### Success Criterion Multiple Ways
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.4.5 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.2.4.5
More than one way is available to locate a Web page within a set of Web pages except where the Web Page is the result of, or a step in, a process.

#### Success Criterion Headings and Labels
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.4.6 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.2.4.6
Headings and labels describe topic or purpose.

#### Success Criterion Focus Visible
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.4.7 Level AA  / EN 301 549 > 9.2.4.7
Any keyboard operable user interface has a mode of operation where the keyboard focus indicator is visible.

### Guideline Modalities
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.5 / EN 301 549 > 9.2.5
Make it easier for users to operate functionality through various inputs beyond keyboard.

#### Success Criterion Pointer Gestures
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.5.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.2.5.1
All functionality that uses multipoint or path-based gestures for operation can be operated with a single pointer without a path-based gesture, unless a multipoint or path-based gesture is essential.
This requirement applies to web content that interprets pointer actions (i.e. this does not apply to actions that are required to operate the user agent or assistive technology).

#### Success Criterion Pointer Cancellation
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.5.2 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.2.5.2
For functionality that can be operated using a single pointer, at least one of the following is true:

- **No Down-Event**: The down-event of the pointer is not used to execute any part of the function;

- **Abort or Undo**: Completion of the function is on the up-event, and a mechanism is available to abort the function before completion or to undo the function after completion;

- **Up Reversal**: The up-event reverses any outcome of the preceding down-event;

- **Essential**: Completing the function on the down-event is essential.

#### Success Criterion  Label in Name
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.5.3 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.2.5.3
For user interface components with labels that include text or images of text, the name contains the text that is presented visually. A best practice is to have the text of the label at the start of the name.

#### Success Criterion Motion Actuation
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 2.5.4 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.2.5.4
Functionality that can be operated by device motion or user motion can also be operated by user interface components and responding to the motion can be disabled to prevent accidental actuation, except when:

- **Supported Interface**: The motion is used to operate functionality through an accessibility supported interface;
- **Essential**: The motion is essential for the function and doing so would invalidate the activity.

## Principle Understandable
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 3. / EN 301 549 > 9.3
Information and the operation of user interface must be understandable.

### Guideline Readable
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 3.1 / EN 301 549 > 9.3.1
Make text content readable and understandable.

#### Success Criterion Language of Page
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 3.1.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.3.1.1
The default human language of each Web page can be programmatically determined.

#### Success Criterion Language of Parts
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 3.1.2 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.3.1.2
The human language of each passage or phrase in the content can be programmatically determined except for proper names, technical terms, words of indeterminate language, and words or phrases that have become part of the vernacular of the immediately surrounding text.

### Guideline Predictable
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 3. / EN 301 549 > 9.3
Make Web pages appear and operate in predictable ways.

#### Success Criterion On Focus
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 3.2.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.3.2.1
When any component receives focus, it does not initiate a change of context.

#### Success Criterion On Input
Changing the setting of any user interface component does not automatically cause a change of context unless the user has been advised of the behavior before using the component.

#### Success Criterion Consistent Navigation
 Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 3.2.3 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.3.2.3
Navigational mechanisms that are repeated on multiple Web pages within a set of Web pages occur in the same relative order each time they are repeated, unless a change is initiated by the user.

#### Success Criterion Consistent Identification
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 3.2.4 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.3.2.4
Components that have the same functionality within a set of Web pages are identified consistently.

### Guideline Input Assistance
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 3.3 / EN 301 549 > 9.3.3
Help users avoid and correct mistakes.

#### Success Criterion Error Identification
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 3.3.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.3.3.1
If an input error is automatically detected, the item that is in error is identified and the error is described to the user in text.

#### Success Criterion Labels or Instructions
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 3.3.2 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.3.3.2
Labels or instructions are provided when content requires user input.

#### Success Criterion Error Suggestion
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 3.3.3 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.3.3.3
If an input error is automatically detected and suggestions for correction are known, then the suggestions are provided to the user, unless it would jeopardize the security or purpose of the content.

#### Success Criterion Error Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data)
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 3.3.4 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.3.3.4
For Web pages that cause legal commitments or financial transactions for the user to occur, that modify or delete user-controllable data in data storage systems, or that submit user test responses, at least one of the following is true:

- **Reversible**: Submissions are reversible.
- **Checked**: Data entered by the user is checked for input errors and the user is provided an opportunity to correct them.
- **Confirmed**: A mechanism is available for reviewing, confirming, and correcting information before finalizing the submission.

### Principle Robust
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 4. / EN 301 549 > 9.4
Content must be robust enough that it can be interpreted reliably by a wide variety of user agents, including assistive technologies.

### Guideline Compatible
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 4.1 / EN 301 549 > 9.4.1
Maximize compatibility with current and future user agents, including assistive technologies.

#### Success Criterion Parsing
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 4.1.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.4.1.1
In content implemented using markup languages, elements have complete start and end tags, elements are nested according to their specifications, elements do not contain duplicate attributes, and any IDs are unique, except where the specifications allow these features. Start and end tags that are missing a critical character in their formation, such as a closing angle bracket or a mismatched attribute value quotation mark are not complete.


#### Success Criterion Name, Role, Value
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 4.1.2 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.4.1.2
For all user interface components (including but not limited to: form elements, links and components generated by scripts), the name and role can be programmatically determined; states, properties, and values that can be set by the user can be programmatically set; and notification of changes to these items is available to user agents, including assistive technologies. This success criterion is primarily for Web authors who develop or script their own user interface components. For example, standard HTML controls already meet this success criterion when used according to specification.

#### Success Criterion Status Messages
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 4.1.3 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.4.1.3
In content implemented using markup languages, status messages can be programmatically determined through role or properties such that they can be presented to the user by assistive technologies without receiving focus.

# CONFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS 
Reference: EN 301 549 > 9.5
ILIAS shall satisfy all the following five WCAG 2.1 conformance requirements at Level AA. 
1) Conformance level 
2) Full pages 
3) Complete processes 
4) Only Accessibility-Supported Ways of Using Technologies 
5) Non-interference
