# Components and Directories

This document describes the big picture of the structure of the ILIAS source code.
On the one hand, the code is organized on the file system and in PHP namespaces.
On the other hand, the various components of ILIAS depend on each other in certain
ways and hence have a logical structure. Both aspects of structure are described
here. The document targets all ILIAS developers, as they all will work with and
in the presented structures.

The document was created to further the goals of the [Component Revision 2022](https://docu.ilias.de/goto.php?target=wiki_1357_Component_Revision_2022).
Hence, as of the creation of this document, the presented structure is not completely
implemented and instead a goal is described, towards which the community should
work.

Every section starts with a general topology of the problem at hand. It proceeds
with directions how the problem is solved in ILIAS and finishes with in-depth
explanations on why certain things should be as described.


## Filesystem and Namespaces

This part of the document describes the layout of the filesystem and the
PHP-Namespaces of the ILIAS code and the components that form the system. The
dependencies between the components are described in the chapter [Types of Dependencies and Integration Strategies](#types-of-dependencies-and-integration-strategies).

### Top-Level-Structure

This describes how the root level of the ILIAS repository and an installation
of ILIAS will look like. Many parts of a productive ILIAS installation are
automatically created via a build process, hence an installation will contain
more files than the ILIAS repository. Still, the structures of both should
match to allow developers to quickly find their way around and admins to
update installations via git.

#### How?

The root of the ILIAS repository contains the following directories and files:

* **`.github`** contains configuration for GitHub-integrations, such as workflows.
  Executables for this purpose are located in scripts. 
* **`cli`** contains executables for productive ILIAS systems that are to be run on
  the command line, such as the setup.php and cron.php.
* **`docs`** contains documentation that is relevant for the complete system.
  Individual components may have **`docs`**-folders as well that contain information
  only about that component.
* **`lang`**: contains language file as is
* **`components`** contains the code for ILIAS
* **`scripts`**: contains scripts to be used during development and for CI
* **`templates`**: contains style code and templates as is

On productive installations and for release packages, these folders will be amended
by some folders generated by a build-process: 

* **`artifacts`**: will contain generated artifacts from ILIAS
* **`Customizing`**: will contain language-modifications and additional skins,
  but no plugins anymore.
* **`node_modules`**: contains JavaScript-libraries as is
* **`vendor`**: contains PHP-libraries as is
* **`public`**: Contains files and folders that need to be exposed to the web,
  so this folder should be linked to www/html 

#### Why?

Configuration and scripts are splitted between **`.github`** and the **`scripts`**
so same scripts can be used by developers from the command line or integrated into
their IDEs. In general, this separation of concerns fosters a style of dev-scripts
that allows for custom automations at individual organisations that use ILIAS and
simplifies switching away from GitHub to another software forge.

**`cli`** and **`scripts`** are different folders because the further will be needed
on production systems while the latter should be removed on them as it is only used
for development purpose.

**`docs`** may also exist in individual components but then only has the scope of
that component. On the one hand, we need a systemwide entrypoint for documentation
to look into high level concepts, processes and provide direction to other resources.
On the other hand, documentation about certain components should be close to the
component in question,  

**`lang`**, **`template`** and **`Customizing`** stay as is for the time being, as
the system can only support a certain amount of change per timeframe. In the long
run it seems advisable to move these folders as well. **`lang`** might be a candidate
to be split up into single components as well. **`templates`** might be moved
completely into the UI-framework once legacy UI components are removed completely.
**`Customizing`** will be a candidate for future treatment once `lang` and `template`
are reconsidered.

**`public`** is introduced so installations can stop exposing each and every file
in the ILIAS repository. This is bad for security and reliability, as the ILILAS
repository contains loads of files that should not be accessible via web: files
containing automated tests, build artifacts, documentation.


### `components` Folder and Namespacing

The `components` folder is the central folder for the ILIAS development. It contains
components that are maintained and developed via the processes of the ILIAS society
and community. It may also contain components developed by third parties, formerly
known as plugins. Hence, this folder is an implementation of one central aim of
the [Component Revision 2022](https://docu.ilias.de/goto.php?target=wiki_1357_Component_Revision_2022):
Mechanisms used by core components and plugins should be aligned.

#### How

The top-level in the `components` starts with a list of all vendors that provide
components for the installation at hand. Hence, for a standard ILIAS, only one
folder `ILIAS` will be contained. When the installation uses plugins, the vendors
of the plugin will have folders as well.

The folders of the individual vendors in turn contain one folder for each component
provided by the vendor in question. Hence a component folder might look as such:

* ILIAS
  * AccessControl
  * Administration
  * Blog
  * Course
  * ...
* ServiceProvider1
  * Plugin1
  * Plugin2
* ServiceProvider2
  * Plugin1

Each of these folder contains an according component. The `\src` directory
in that folder contains the root of an according namespace, as described
by [PSR-4](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-4/). For example: `components/ILIAS/AccessControl`
contains the component `ILIAS\AccessControl`, `components/ILIAS/AccessControl/src`
is the root of the namespace `ILIAS\AccessControl`.

A components folder also contains this substructure:

* `/docs` for component specific documentation
* `/src` for the code to be used for production
* `/tests` for code that performs automated tests
* `/resources` for auxiliary files like icons, endpoints
* a `Component.php` that defines the binding of the
  component to the rest of the system
* a `component.json` that contains component metadata, such as contact of
  maintainers
* a `README.md` that gives human readable info about the component

#### Why

PHP-Namespacing with its `Vendor\Package` logic is a good fit for ILIAS components.
It provides a natural way to resolve naming clashes between all component and
plugins and fits well in the general PHP ecosystem.

Although for a standard ILIAS installation the additional `ILIAS` folder in `components`
might seem unnecessary, it provides a natural way to add plugins from other vendors
and should make it easier for people finding a specific component. If for some reason
plugins should be backed up or in any other way be treated differently than ILIAS
components, this could still be implemented via a simple directory based approach,
as was also possible with the `Customizing` folder.

The superficial distinction between "Modules" and "Services" is dropped, as it doesn't
seem to be helpful anymore. On further iterations on the integration mechanism used
in ILIAS, it seems to be desirable that the idea, that one component (previously:
"Module") may only provide one type of repository object is dropped. This will clarify
the directory layout for components that in fact provide several repository objects,
such as `Course` and `CourseReference`.

The previous XML-based component definition is split into two distinct files.
**`component.json`** contains metadata about the component, such as names of
maintainers, version numbers and contacts. `$COMPONENT.php` defines, how the
component is integrated with other components of the system, e.g. the CronJobs
or the Event System.

The xml-based definition was droppped for various reasons:

* A custom XML format requires its own parser that needs to be maintained.
  The parser, in turn, needs custom mechanisms to be extended by other
  components.
* XML and PHP are equally expressive, but PHP-IDEs provide helpers like syntax
  highlighting or code completion for PHP and not for custom XML.
* The mechanism and approaches for writing and maintaining PHP code are well
  established in the ILIAS community. This is not true for XML.


## Types of Dependencies and Integration Strategies

This chapter describes how different components of the system may depend on each
other and how these dependencies are implemented. Components may implement different
patterns in their relation to other components. A component might [define one service](#define-service)
and [provide code](#provide-code) to ease the implementation of that service, but
also [pull code](#pull-code) from yet another component. The component `ILIAS\AccessControl`,
for example, defines how an `ilAccessHandler` (yet to be namespaced...) needs to
look and also provides a base class `ilAccess` (yet to be namespaced...) to ease
the implementation of the handler. It also pulls code from `ILIAS\Refinery` to
implement some checks.

Each of the types of dependencies described here might in general be implemented
by various means from the perspective of PHP. We still strive to limit ourselves
to certain patterns for the different types. Some patterns lead to better overall
properties of the system then others, a limited number of patterns make the system
comprehensible.

The types of dependencies and the patterns have a different strength of coupling.
In general, we try to strive to use weaker forms of dependencies if possible,
to reduce coupling between components of the system.


### Basics

Location and namespacing of components is discussed in the [according section](#components-folder-and-namespacing).
What's left is a description how components actually integrate into the rest of
the system and how the according code looks like.
This section describes the code that needs to be put into the component to actually
define the integration.

#### How

The integrations are defined by implementing the interface `\ILIAS\Core\Component`
for the class that has the same qualified name as the component it ought to describe.
The component `Vendor\SomeComponent` should have file `Component.php` in its folder,
containing a class `Vendor\SomeComponent`. The interface `\ILIAS\Core\Component`
defines one method `init`, that describes the integration with other components:

```php
namespace Vendor;

class SomeComponent implements Component
{

    public function init(
        array | \ArrayAccess &$define,
        array | \ArrayAccess &$implement,
        array | \ArrayAccess &$use,
        array | \ArrayAccess &$contribute,
        array | \ArrayAccess &$seek,
        array | \ArrayAccess &$provide,
        array | \ArrayAccess &$pull,
        array | \ArrayAccess &$internal,
    ) : void {
        // ...
    }
}
```

The integration uses a dependency injection container, as established in `Services\Init`
over the last years. Instead of one container we use eight containers for the various
types of integrations described below and for internal use.

The fields in the containers need to be filled with closures to allow for defered
instantion of the objects we define. All containers that allow to access objects
can be used during instantiation. The easiest way to fill the containers hence is
to use anonymouns short closures which can access variables from the complete
scope.

```php
        $internal["my_internal_thingy"] = static fn() => new InternalThingy($use[SomeOtherService::class]);

```

The different containers represents different directions of dependencies, hence
some of them can be only written, some of them can only be read:

* `$define`, `$implement`, `$contribute` and `$provide` define facilities that the
   component at hand offers to the rest of the system. They can only be written.
* `$use`, `$seek`, `$pull` define requirements that the   component demands from
  the rest of the system. They can only be read.

The `$internal` is meant to construct interal wiring of the components, hence it can
be read and written. It can be used for facilities that are internal to the component,
but it can also be used to wire up external dependencies. A component might for
example provide some facility that contributes to various other components.
`$internal` can then be used to contribute that facility to both other components:

```php
        $internal["my_internal_thingy"] = static fn() => new InternalThingy();
        $contribute[Vendor\Component\SomeContribution::class] = static fn () => $internal["my_internal_thingy"];
        $contribute[Vendor\OtherComponent\OtherContribution::class] = static fn () => $internal["my_internal_thingy"];
```

#### Why

The technique to define dependency graphs via array-access syntax and anonymous
functions is well established by the pimple dependency injection container. There
are tons of other dependency injection containers out there, many of them using
other techniques to define the dependency graph. For our use case we consider
the pimple technique to be appropriate:

* There is no need to learn a domain specific language for the dependency graph, as
  e.g. the [dependency injection component of symfony](https://symfony.com/doc/current/components/dependency_injection.html)
  uses.
* There is no need to learn a new PHP interface to define the dependency graph, as
  e.g. the [dependency injection component of symfony](https://symfony.com/doc/current/components/dependency_injection.html)
  uses.
* The environment is easy to set up, because all we need for a first approximation
  are arrays. Hence the technique is good for automated testing and general tinkering.
  No need to parse any file or mock some interface.

We propose to increase the amount of containers that are used to define the graph
to eight since we are looking to get a good grasp of the dependencies in the system.
There are fundamentally different types of dependencies, as outlined below, that
we need to model and want to understand. One array-like object would not be enough
to capture these types. We are then faced with the decision to make one container
more complex (see above) or just use more containers (as proposed).


### Define Service

A component may define the interface to a service it provides. To be a service
definition it is crucial that the interface...

* ...is defined from the perspective of an intended usage, not an intended or actual
  implementation
* ...is minimal, i.e. only contains what is necessary for the intended usage
* ...is an abstraction, i.e. hides complexity, instead of being a generalisation
  which spans complexity
* ...is the frontend to some subsystem, not just a way to hide some implementation
  details

A mostly good example for the service definition is the [`Logger`-interface of PSR-3](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-3/).
It is clearly defined from a usage-perspective and it hides various potentially
very different or complex systems or implementations behind a fairly abstract
interface. An anti-example from the same domain is the `ilLog`-class that publishes
various implementation details of a concrete implementation of a certain logging
mechanism.

A service definition and the interface to the service do not necessarily need to be
made from one PHP interface or class only. Dependending on the subsystem and intended
usage that is abstracted by the service definition, various interfaces or even classes
for data transfer might be required.

Still, if a service definition sticks to the qualities defined above, it should
be simple to reimplement it, outsource it to some other system, provide an alternative
implementation, or, in general, just replace it by another implementation. Which
is a sign for decoupled components and hence a flexible system.

This is the weakest form of coupling, as the component only provides some definition
to the world without knowing other components.

#### How?

To define a service, the component needs to specify the service via some interface:

```php
namespace Vendor\Component;

interface Service
{
    /* ... */
}
```

To announce that the service exists the component puts the interface in the container
named `$define`:

```php
namespace Vendor;

use Vendor\Component\Service;

class Component implements \ILIAS\Core\Component
{
    public function init(
        array | \ArrayAccess &$define,
        // ...
    ) {
        $define[] = Vendor\Component\Service::class];
    }
```

This just announces the existence of the service to the system.

#### Why?

Before this proposal there is no unified way to speak about or announce services or
service interfaces in ILIAS. This proposal will allow to discover all services that
are available in a given ILIAS codebase with a simple grep statement. More complex
search or analysis can be build accordingly.


### Use Service

A component may use a service that is [defined by another component](#define-service).
When using a service it is crucial that the component only relies on the defined
interface and not on some concrete implementation of that service. A good service
definition will make this easy and the using component will be able to use all
implementations of the service equally. Other than with [Pull Code](#pull-code), which is
described later on, we are not really interested in any details regarding the service,
such as state, configuration etc. We just want any implementation that matches
services interface.

This coupling is littler stronger then a mere [service definition](#define-service)
because the component depends on some component providing the service. It does not
need to know any implementor of the service and these can be exchanged, so there is
no strong dependency on a certain implementation.

#### How?

To use a service implemented by some other component, access the `$use` container
with the name of the service. The used services will mostly be passed to some
other object as a dependency, for example some internal factory. Keep in mind
that we cannot expect a certain implementation for a given service, only some
implementation for the required interface. 

```php
namespace Vendor;

use Vendor\Component\Service;

class Component implements \ILIAS\Core\Component
{
    public function init(
        // ...
        array | \ArrayAccess &$use,
        // ...
        array | \ArrayAccess &$internal,
    ) {
        $internal["internal_thingy"] = static fn () => new InternalThingy($use[Vendor\Component\SomeService::class]);
    }
```



### Implement Service

Components might implement services that are defined by other components or
themselves. The component provides some concrete implementation that fulfils
requirements defined by some interface. To be a good implementation, it should
accurately follow the specification of the service definition, i.e. neither
do more nor less than required. For example, an implementation...:

* ...should accept all arguments from the outside that fit the service definition
  and not fail on any of these arguments
* ...should not throw exceptions to open up side channels to the defined interface
* ...should implement all required parts of the interface and not fail on certain
  calls.

It is absolutely fine, though, if various interfaces and service definitions are
implemented by the same class.

The coupling here is even stronger than it is the case when we [use a service](#use-service).
In both cases the component depends on the component defining the service. But
while we might ignore certain parts of an interface when just using the service,
we can not do so when we implement a service. Some users might rely the complete
interface.

#### How?

To declare that a component implements some service (be it defined by itself, be it
defined by some other component) the implementation is inserted to the `$implement`
container:


```php
namespace Vendor;

use Vendor\Component\Service;

class Component implements \ILIAS\Core\Component
{
    public function init(
        // ...
        array | \ArrayAccess &$implement,
        // ...
    ) {
        $implement[OtherVendor\SomeComponent\SomeService::class] = static fn () => new MyImplementation(/*...*/);
    }
```

The implementation could `$use`, `$seek` or `$pull` from other components and
also user `$internal` facilities.



### Seek Contributions to Service or Functionality

Some components need contributions from other services to provide their services to
the system. In this type of dependency the component [`implements a service`](#implement-service),
or functionality, but cannot do all the work on its own. Instead, it needs support
from other components and hence requires contributions from them.

The event system `Services\EventHandling` provides the service to raise and handle
events, in definition and implementation. Still, on its own, it won't be able to do
anything useful, as it hasn't handlers that do the actual handling of events. So
`Services\EventHandling` seeks contributions of event handlers from other services.

This superficially might look like the [definition of a service](#define-service),
as the seeking component will most certainly provide some interface that needs
to be implemented by the contributing component. Still, the dependency is reversed:
it is the seeker that needs to contributing component to do its work.

This coupling is stronger than the [usage of a service](#use-service), because the
seeker needs contributions with an actually useful implementation to do any work.
It won't break from a code perspective, if there are no contributions, but it will
most certainly feel broken to its user if nothing interesting happens.

#### How?

To seek for contributions to a service, the `$seek` container is used. It may be
queried for a certain interface and returns a list of all contributions that are
made via this interface:

```php
namespace Vendor;

use Vendor\Component\Service;

class Component implements \ILIAS\Core\Component
{
    public function init(
        // ...
        array | \ArrayAccess &$seek,
        // ...
        array | \ArrayAccess &$internal,
    ) {
        $internal["internal_thingy"] = static fn () => new InternalThingy($seek[Vendor\Component\TypeOfContribution::class]);
    }
```

While the fields in other readable containers only return singular objects, the
`$seek` container returns lists of objects implementing the seeked interface. These
lists might be empty if no contribution to the interface was made.

#### Why?

Other than for services, possible contributions need not be defined abstractly before
actual contributions are seeked. An abstract definition won't be very useful anyway.
On the one hand, a component might be able to contribute to some service that the
system at hand does not even implement. On the other hand `$seek` can always return
an empty array if no contributions exist.



### Contribute to Service or Functionality

Sometimes components are in a position to contribute to the service or function that
another component provides. That other component [seeks contributions](#seek-contributions-to-service-or-functionality)
from other components by defining requirements in form of an interface. The contributing
component can implement the requirements and hence participate in the service or
functionality.

Many components, for example, contribute entries to the main bar or the meta bar.
Both bars would be useless if there were no contributions. But the individual
contributors would be just fine without main bar items.

This might superficially look like a combination of a [service usage](#use-service)
and a [service implementation](#implement-service), but the requirements are flipped:
The component that contributes to the service does not require the seeking component to
function, but the seeking component needs the contributor instead.

#### How?

To contribute to a service, the `$contribute` container is used:

```php
namespace Vendor;

use Vendor\Component\Service;

class Component implements \ILIAS\Core\Component
{
    public function init(
        // ...
        array | \ArrayAccess &$contribute,
        // ...
    ) {
        $contribute[Vendor/Component/SomeContribution::class] = static fn () => new MyContribution();
    }
```

Components can add various contributions for the same interface. These should just
be added one after another:

```php
        $contribute[Vendor/Component/SomeContribution::class] = static fn () => new FirstContribution();
        $contribute[Vendor/Component/SomeContribution::class] = static fn () => new SecondContribution();
```



### Provide Code

Some components are, at least partly, providers of code to other components. Although
this might look similar to components [defining](#define-service) and [implementing](#implement service)
services, providing code is another beast:

* Although there might be interfaces guarding internals and implementation details
  from the outside world (as e.g. [the UI Framework](src/UI) does), these interfaces
  are designed from the perspective of the code that is offered.
* So there is little abstraction going on in these components, instead they might
  more try to generalize use cases. While abstraction tries to hide complexity behind
  simpler concepts, generalisation tries to tame complexity by spanning and unifying
  various concepts.
* Users will become dependent on any behaviour of our code. It won't matter if the
  behaviour is indeed intended or just emerged accidentially. A bugfix for the one
  might be a breaking change for the other.
* The code will need to work. Now. In every combination. As intended by the user.

So, if possible, components should try to provide their functionality by a combination
of a service definition as thin as possible, together with an according implementation.
Still, the system needs functionality that can only be understood as a code repository.
Also, many components will want to provide smallish snippets to other components, e.g.
abstract base classes, traits or utility classes to be used for other integration
patterns.

Examples for components that can be seen as repositories of code are the
[`Refinery`](src/Refinery) and the [`UI-Framework`](src/UI). The setup mostly acts
as a [seeker of contributions](#seek-contributions-to-service-or-functionality)
to its functionality, but also provides some snippets of code to its contributors.

It might look as if the components that use the code are more dependent on the
provider as the other way round. This is not the case: While the components using
the code only depend on the parts they use, the providing component depends on
all the usages in the sense that these usages force requirements on the implementation
(explicitly and implicitly). This restricts possible implementations in the provider
and changes thereof. This also implies, that the highlander principle applies to
code providers: there can only be one.

#### How?

The preferred mechanism to provide code looks just like the according mechanism for
services. Other than for services, an implementation must be provided and it may
use other dependencies from the system.

```php
namespace Vendor;

use Vendor\Component\Service;

class Component implements \ILIAS\Core\Component
{
    public function init(
        // ...
        array | \ArrayAccess &$provide,
        // ...
    ) {
        $provide[Vendor\Component\SomeCode::class] = static fn () => new Vendor\Component\SomeCode(/*...*/);
    }
```

Still, there are important differences:

* While some specific service could be implemented by various components, code with
  a certain name can only be provided by one component.
* While for services we always use interfaces to name and describe them, we might
  use classes to do so for code.
* The component providing the code also owns the interface or class that is used to
  name the code. In some circumstances, there will be only one class, providing the
  name and the code. On the other hand, components can implement services that are
  defined by another component.

Code provided via this mechanism could for example be a factory or a library of
functions. It can and often should be accompanied by interfaces that define how
the code is used and classes for, e.g., DTOs or other even other purposes. The
definition of the code provided via the `$provide` container should allow its users
to discover the connected classes and interfaces. Explanations, howtos, tutorials
and such can be given in the components `doc`-folder.

Another way to provide code to other components is to offer `trait`s to users. These
can be useful to help users to implement certain, maybe common, parts of interfaces
or encapsulate algorithms for easier use.

In general, we should try to provide code in the most abstract way that is available.
Can you provide a factory instead of making users use `new` with a certain name?
Great, do it. Can we use composition (e.g. traits) instead of inheritance (abstract
base class)? Awesome. Just because we are providing code (instead of services) we
should not forget to strive for a loose coupling between components.

Thus, we should not use bare `functions` or static methods to provide code to
some other component. We can always replace these to techniques with an injected
class carrying the functions. This will to replace the calls, e.g. for unit tests.


### Pull Code

The ways to pull code should come at no surprise given [the previous chapter](#provide-code).
Developers often have a rather strange relationship to other peoples code. On the one
hand we love to pull some dependency from somewhere into our project so we do not need
to write it (whatever it is) on our own. This makes us productive. On the other hand,
we often tend to rewrite stuff that has been done a hundred times before. This makes
us slow. To keep a system like ILIAS coherent and workable we should fall on neiher
side:

* Only pull code into your component if you are positive that it is indeed meant to
  be used by other components in the intended way. Documentation and the $provide-array
  should already help a lot. When in doubt: ask.
* If there is code designed to solve your problem, use it. When it does not fit exactly
  or it lacks ease of use, just improve it instead of implementing your own solution.
  Sharing common code is at the core of every open source community.

#### How?

This is the preferred mechanism to pull code from another component:

```php
namespace Vendor;

use Vendor\Component\Service;

class Component implements \ILIAS\Core\Component
{
    public function init(
        // ...
        array | \ArrayAccess &$pull,
        // ...
    ) {
        $internal["internal_thingy"] = static fn () => new InternalThingy($pull[Vendor\Component\TypeOfContribution::class]);
    }
```

There is a variety of other methods that can be used to pull code. Look into the
documentation of the component you want to use.


## Roadmap and Migration

* As of creation of the release_9-branch, CaT will ask for a quick stop in new
  commits and move existing code into the new file system structure.
  * The actual internal structure for the ILIAS component can be introduced bit
    by bit. Currently, most components in ILIAS rely on the classmap of composer
    anyway to locate classes in the codebase. This will simply keep working even
    if directories are moved inside the codebase. The classmap created by composer
    will simply point to other locations.
  * Most important endpoints and js-includes will be moved with the PR.
* Plugins can continue to use the existing slots for at least ILIAS 10. The implementation
  status for this proposal should be assessed during the development of ILIAS 10
  (about a year from now...) to reconsider when to abandon existing plugin slots.
* After the PR to introduce namespaces is merged, CaT will propose a second PR, that:
  * introduces a `$COMPONENT.php` for every component
  * moves integrations for these components to the new system:
    * COPage
    * Logging
    * Mail
    * Setup
    * Badge
    * WebAccessChecker
    * Object
    * EventHandling
    * Cron
    * SystemCheck
  * moves current initialisation into a `ILIAS\Legacy` component:
    * move `Dependencies` from `Services\Init` to the respective components
    * initialize DIC in Component::init
    * potentially: improve structure of initialisation
  * takes care about endpoints, so they will exist in the `public` folder afterwards
* DIC can be used for at least ILIAS 10. The implementation status for this proposal
  should be assessed during the development of ILIAS 10 (about a year from now...) to
  reconsider when to abandon DIC.
* CaT will provide migrations and howtos to move existing installations to new
  structure.
